--
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Reflecting on My Experience Developing Assignment II"
date: 2024-04-29
published: true
labels:
  - ITM352
---

Assignment 2 features a fully functional login page. It will check the user_data.json to ensure that the password and username match. If they don't, you'll receive a validation message and be unable to "purchase" the item. When you log in, the purchase will be stuck, and you may continue. Assignment 2 taught me a lot, particularly about the need to use the correct app.post and the overall functions of a "POST". I also learned how to use functions! I did not work with a partner, but I was able to attend several study sessions and learn about other people's code. I had repeatedly sought assistance. Whether it was classmates, past course participants, the lecturer, the TA, friends, or anybody else I might contact to learn more.
This assignment was unique in that there were several server-side tasks to complete in addition to client-side ones. Assignment 2 concentrated on updating JSON files and making them interact with one another, whereas Assignment 1 focused on validation and web page design. I spent roughly 20% of my time thinking about the code, 30% writing it, and 50% testing and debugging it.
I was familiar with the pre-existing code from Assignment 1. I knew where to define variables and put in additions. I was also highly knowledgeable about assignment 1. Assignment 2 did not go as well because I wasn't sure what I was doing at times. I knew what I wanted to do, but I had no notes or prior understanding of how to get there. This resulted in a lot of stalling, chatting with people, and writing various forms of code.
If I could go back in time, I would certainly do more research on server-side processes. I completed the reading and modules, but I did not have time to conduct further study outside of class to prepare for this. 
